docs/source/command_line.rst, before:

Command Line Tools
==================

A web3j fat jar is distributed with each release providing command line tools. The command line
allow you to use some of the functionality of web3j from your terminal:

These tools provide:

- Wallet creation
- Wallet password management
- Ether transfer from one wallet to another
- Generation of Solidity smart contract wrappers

The command line tools can be obtained as a zipfile/tarball from the
`releases <https://github.com/web3j/web3j/releases/latest>`_ page of the project repository, under
the **Downloads** section.

To run, simply extract the zipfile and run the binary:

.. code-block:: bash

   $ unzip web3j-<version>.zip
      creating: web3j-1.0.2/lib/
     inflating: web3j-1.0.2/lib/core-1.0.2-all.jar
      creating: web3j-1.0.2/bin/
     inflating: web3j-1.0.2/bin/web3j
     inflating: web3j-1.0.2/bin/web3j.bat
   $ ./web3j-<version>/bin/web3j

                 _      _____ _     _
                | |    |____ (_)   (_)
   __      _____| |__      / /_     _   ___
   \ \ /\ / / _ \ '_ \     \ \ |   | | / _ \
    \ V  V /  __/ |_) |.___/ / | _ | || (_) |
     \_/\_/ \___|_.__/ \____/| |(_)|_| \___/
                            _/ |
                           |__/

   Usage: web3j wallet|solidity ...


Wallet tools
------------

To generate a new Ethereum wallet:

.. code-block:: bash

   $ web3j wallet create

To update the password for an existing wallet:

.. code-block:: bash

   $ web3j wallet update <walletfile>

To send Ether to another address:

.. code-block:: bash

   $ web3j wallet send <walletfile> <destination-address>

When sending Ether to another address you will be asked a series of questions before the
transaction takes place. See the below for a full example

The following example demonstrates using web3j to send Ether to another wallet.

.. code-block:: bash

   $ ./web3j-<version>/bin/web3j wallet send <walletfile> <destination-address>

                 _      _____ _     _
                | |    |____ (_)   (_)
   __      _____| |__      / /_     _   ___
   \ \ /\ / / _ \ '_ \     \ \ |   | | / _ \
    \ V  V /  __/ |_) |.___/ / | _ | || (_) |
     \_/\_/ \___|_.__/ \____/| |(_)|_| \___/
                            _/ |
                           |__/

   Please enter your existing wallet file password:
   Wallet for address 0x19e03255f667bdfd50a32722df860b1eeaf4d635 loaded
   Please confirm address of running Ethereum client you wish to send the transfer request to [http://localhost:8545/]:
   Connected successfully to client: Geth/v1.4.18-stable-c72f5459/darwin/go1.7.3
   What amound would you like to transfer (please enter a numeric value): 0.000001
   Please specify the unit (ether, wei, ...) [ether]:
   Please confim that you wish to transfer 0.000001 ether (1000000000000 wei) to address 0x9c98e381edc5fe1ac514935f3cc3edaa764cf004
   Please type 'yes' to proceed: yes
   Commencing transfer (this may take a few minutes)...................................................................................................................$

   Funds have been successfully transferred from 0x19e03255f667bdfd50a32722df860b1eeaf4d635 to 0x9c98e381edc5fe1ac514935f3cc3edaa764cf004
   Transaction hash: 0xb00afc5c2bb92a76d03e17bd3a0175b80609e877cb124c02d19000d529390530
   Mined block number: 1849039


Solidity smart contract wrapper generator
------------------------------------------

Please refer to :ref:`smart-contract-wrappers`.

Commit message:

1. Fixed RLP encoded bug on zero prefix byte arrays.  2. Added web3j version details to release jar.  3. Added details of web3j Homebrew tap.  4. Added web3j version stamp to Smart Contract Java wrapper generator.  5. Added version argument to web3j command line tools.  6. Added support for creating light wallet files.

docs/source/command_line.rst, after:

Command Line Tools
==================

A web3j fat jar is distributed with each release providing command line tools. The command line
allow you to use some of the functionality of web3j from your terminal:

These tools provide:

- Wallet creation
- Wallet password management
- Ether transfer from one wallet to another
- Generation of Solidity smart contract wrappers

The command line tools can be obtained as a zipfile/tarball from the
`releases <https://github.com/web3j/web3j/releases/latest>`_ page of the project repository, under
the **Downloads** section, or for OS X users via
`Homebrew <https://github.com/web3j/homebrew-web3j>`_.

.. code-block:: bash

   brew tap web3j/web3j
   brew install web3j

To run via the zipfile, simply extract the zipfile and run the binary:

.. code-block:: bash

   $ unzip web3j-<version>.zip
      creating: web3j-1.0.2/lib/
     inflating: web3j-1.0.2/lib/core-1.0.2-all.jar
      creating: web3j-1.0.2/bin/
     inflating: web3j-1.0.2/bin/web3j
     inflating: web3j-1.0.2/bin/web3j.bat
   $ ./web3j-<version>/bin/web3j

                 _      _____ _     _
                | |    |____ (_)   (_)
   __      _____| |__      / /_     _   ___
   \ \ /\ / / _ \ '_ \     \ \ |   | | / _ \
    \ V  V /  __/ |_) |.___/ / | _ | || (_) |
     \_/\_/ \___|_.__/ \____/| |(_)|_| \___/
                            _/ |
                           |__/

   Usage: web3j wallet|solidity ...


Wallet tools
------------

To generate a new Ethereum wallet:

.. code-block:: bash

   $ web3j wallet create

To update the password for an existing wallet:

.. code-block:: bash

   $ web3j wallet update <walletfile>

To send Ether to another address:

.. code-block:: bash

   $ web3j wallet send <walletfile> <destination-address>

When sending Ether to another address you will be asked a series of questions before the
transaction takes place. See the below for a full example

The following example demonstrates using web3j to send Ether to another wallet.

.. code-block:: bash

   $ ./web3j-<version>/bin/web3j wallet send <walletfile> <destination-address>

                 _      _____ _     _
                | |    |____ (_)   (_)
   __      _____| |__      / /_     _   ___
   \ \ /\ / / _ \ '_ \     \ \ |   | | / _ \
    \ V  V /  __/ |_) |.___/ / | _ | || (_) |
     \_/\_/ \___|_.__/ \____/| |(_)|_| \___/
                            _/ |
                           |__/

   Please enter your existing wallet file password:
   Wallet for address 0x19e03255f667bdfd50a32722df860b1eeaf4d635 loaded
   Please confirm address of running Ethereum client you wish to send the transfer request to [http://localhost:8545/]:
   Connected successfully to client: Geth/v1.4.18-stable-c72f5459/darwin/go1.7.3
   What amound would you like to transfer (please enter a numeric value): 0.000001
   Please specify the unit (ether, wei, ...) [ether]:
   Please confim that you wish to transfer 0.000001 ether (1000000000000 wei) to address 0x9c98e381edc5fe1ac514935f3cc3edaa764cf004
   Please type 'yes' to proceed: yes
   Commencing transfer (this may take a few minutes)...................................................................................................................$

   Funds have been successfully transferred from 0x19e03255f667bdfd50a32722df860b1eeaf4d635 to 0x9c98e381edc5fe1ac514935f3cc3edaa764cf004
   Transaction hash: 0xb00afc5c2bb92a76d03e17bd3a0175b80609e877cb124c02d19000d529390530
   Mined block number: 1849039


Solidity smart contract wrapper generator
------------------------------------------

Please refer to :ref:`smart-contract-wrappers`.
