docs/source/infura.rst, before:

Using Infura with web3j
=======================

Signing up
----------

The `Infura <https://infura.io/>`_ service by `Consensys <https://consensys.net/>`_, provides Ethereum clients running in the cloud, so you don't have to run one yourself to work with Ethereum.

When you sign up to the service you are provided with a token you can use to connect to the relvant Ethereum network:

Main Ethereum Network:
  https://mainnet.infura.io/your-token

Test Ethereum Network (Morden):
  https://morden.infura.io/your-token


Certificate installation
------------------------

As the Infura nodes are accessed over TLS, you will need to install the relevant certificates into your Java Virtual Machine's keystore.

You can obtain the certificate using the `Firefox <https://www.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/new/>`_ web browser:

.. image:: /images/infura_cert.png

Once you have downloaded it, then install it into your keystore (for Windows/Linux hosts the paths will differ slightly):

.. code-block:: bash

   $JAVA_HOME/Contents/Home/jre/bin/keytool -import -noprompt -trustcacerts -alias morden.infura.io -file  ~/Downloads/morden.infura.io -keystore $JAVA_HOME/Contents/Home/jre/lib/security/cacerts -storepass changeit


Connecting
----------

You can now use Infura to work with the Ethereum blockchain.

::

   Web3j web3 = Web3j.build(new HttpService("https://morden.infura.io/your-token"));
   Web3ClientVersion web3ClientVersion = web3.web3ClientVersion().sendAsync().get();
   System.out.println(web3ClientVersion.getWeb3ClientVersion());

.. code-block:: bash

   Parity//v1.3.5-beta/x86_64-linux-gnu/rustc1.12.0


If you want to test a number of the JSON-RPC calls against Infura, update the integration test `org.web3j.protocol.core.CoreIT <https://github.com/web3j/web3j/blob/master/src/integration-test/java/org/web3j/protocol/core/CoreIT.java>`_ with your Infura URL & run it.


Transactions
------------

In order to transact with Infura nodes, you will need to create and sign transactions offline before sending them, as Infura nodes have no visibility of your encrypted Ethereum key files, which are required to unlock accounts via the Personal Geth/Parity admin commands.

Refer to the :doc:`signing_transactions` and :doc:`management_apis` sections for further details.

Commit message:

Added instructions for pulling certificate down via SSL.

docs/source/infura.rst, after:

Using Infura with web3j
=======================

Signing up
----------

The `Infura <https://infura.io/>`_ service by `Consensys <https://consensys.net/>`_, provides Ethereum clients running in the cloud, so you don't have to run one yourself to work with Ethereum.

When you sign up to the service you are provided with a token you can use to connect to the relvant Ethereum network:

Main Ethereum Network:
  https://mainnet.infura.io/your-token

Test Ethereum Network (Morden):
  https://morden.infura.io/your-token


Certificate installation
------------------------

As the Infura nodes are accessed over TLS, you will need to install the relevant certificates into your Java Virtual Machine's keystore.

You can obtain the certificate using the `Firefox <https://www.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/new/>`_ web browser:

.. image:: /images/infura_cert.png

Alternatively, you can use SSL (this will only download the first certificate in the chain, which should be adequate).

.. code-block:: bash

   openssl s_client -connect morden.infura.io:443 -showcerts </dev/null 2>/dev/null|openssl x509 -outform PEM > infura-morden.pem

Once you have downloaded it, then install it into your keystore (for Windows/Linux hosts the paths will differ slightly):

.. code-block:: bash

   $JAVA_HOME/Contents/Home/jre/bin/keytool -import -noprompt -trustcacerts -alias morden.infura.io -file  ~/Downloads/morden.infura.io -keystore $JAVA_HOME/Contents/Home/jre/lib/security/cacerts -storepass changeit


Connecting
----------

You can now use Infura to work with the Ethereum blockchain.

::

   Web3j web3 = Web3j.build(new HttpService("https://morden.infura.io/your-token"));
   Web3ClientVersion web3ClientVersion = web3.web3ClientVersion().sendAsync().get();
   System.out.println(web3ClientVersion.getWeb3ClientVersion());

.. code-block:: bash

   Parity//v1.3.5-beta/x86_64-linux-gnu/rustc1.12.0


If you want to test a number of the JSON-RPC calls against Infura, update the integration test `org.web3j.protocol.core.CoreIT <https://github.com/web3j/web3j/blob/master/src/integration-test/java/org/web3j/protocol/core/CoreIT.java>`_ with your Infura URL & run it.


Transactions
------------

In order to transact with Infura nodes, you will need to create and sign transactions offline before sending them, as Infura nodes have no visibility of your encrypted Ethereum key files, which are required to unlock accounts via the Personal Geth/Parity admin commands.

Refer to the :doc:`signing_transactions` and :doc:`management_apis` sections for further details.
