docs/source/management_apis.rst, before:

Management APIs
===============

In addition to implementing the standard `JSON-RPC <https://github.com/ethereum/wiki/wiki/JSON-RPC>`_ API, Ethereum clients, such as `Geth <https://github.com/ethereum/go-ethereum/wiki/geth>`__ and `Parity <https://github.com/paritytech/parity>`__ provide additional management via JSON-RPC.

One of the key common pieces of functionality that they provide is the ability to create & unlock Ethereum accounts for transacting on the network. In Geth and Parity, this is implemented in their Personal modules, details of which are available below:

- `Parity <https://github.com/paritytech/parity/wiki/JSONRPC-personal-module>`__
- `Geth <https://github.com/ethereum/go-ethereum/wiki/Management-APIs#personal>`__

Support for the personal modules is available in web3j. Both clients have further admin commands available, they will be incorporated into web3j over time if there is sufficient demand.

As Parity provides a superset of the personal admin commands offered by Geth, you can initialise a new web3j connector using the `Parity <https://github.com/web3j/web3j/blob/master/src/main/java/org/web3j/protocol/parity/Parity.java>`_ factory method::

   Parity parity = Parity.build(new HttpService());  // defaults to http://localhost:8545/
   PersonalUnlockAccount personalUnlockAccount = parity.personalUnlockAccount("0x000...", "a password").sendAsync().get();
   if (personalUnlockAccount.accountUnlocked()) {
       // send a transaction, or use parity.personalSignAndSendTransaction() to do it all in one
   }

Refer to the integration test `ParityIT <https://github.com/web3j/web3j/blob/master/src/integration-test/java/org/web3j/protocol/parity/ParityIT.java>`_ for further implementation details.

Commit message:

1. Updated documentation in preparation for 3.0 release. 2. Updated config to enable running of integration-tests module from the command line.

docs/source/management_apis.rst, after:

Management APIs
===============

In addition to implementing the standard
`JSON-RPC <https://github.com/ethereum/wiki/wiki/JSON-RPC>`_ API, Ethereum clients, such as
`Geth <https://github.com/ethereum/go-ethereum/wiki/geth>`__ and
`Parity <https://github.com/paritytech/parity>`__ provide additional management via JSON-RPC.

One of the key common pieces of functionality that they provide is the ability to create and
unlock Ethereum accounts for transacting on the network. In Geth and Parity, this is implemented
in their Personal modules, details of which are available below:

- `Parity <https://github.com/paritytech/parity/wiki/JSONRPC-personal-module>`__
- `Geth <https://github.com/ethereum/go-ethereum/wiki/Management-APIs#personal>`__

Support for the personal modules is available in web3j. Those methods that are common to both Geth
and Parity reside in the `Admin <https://github.com/web3j/web3j/blob/master/core/src/main/java/org/web3j/protocol/admin/Admin.java>`_ module of web3j.

You can initialise a new web3j connector that supports this module using the factory method::

   Admin web3j = Admin.build(new HttpService());  // defaults to http://localhost:8545/
   PersonalUnlockAccount personalUnlockAccount = admin.personalUnlockAccount("0x000...", "a password").send();
   if (personalUnlockAccount.accountUnlocked()) {
       // send a transaction
   }

For Geth specific methods, you can use the
`Geth <https://github.com/web3j/web3j/blob/master/geth/src/main/java/org/web3j/protocol/geth/Geth.java>`_
connector, and for Parity you can use the associated
`Parity <https://github.com/web3j/web3j/blob/master/parity/src/main/java/org/web3j/protocol/parity/Parity.java>`_
connector. The *Parity* connector also provides support for Parity's
`Trace <https://github.com/paritytech/parity/wiki/JSONRPC-trace-module>`_ module. These connectors
are available in the web3j *geth* and *parity* modules respectively.

You can refer to the integration test
`ParityIT <https://github.com/web3j/web3j/blob/master/integration-tests/src/test/java/org/web3j/protocol/parity/ParityIT.java>`_
for further examples of working with these APIs.
