docs/source/trouble.rst, before:

Troubleshooting
===============

I'm submitting a transaction, but it's not being mined
------------------------------------------------------
After creating and sending a transaction, you receive a transaction hash, however calling
`eth_getTransactionReceipt <https://github.com/ethereum/wiki/wiki/JSON-RPC#eth_gettransactionreceipt>`_
always returns a blank value, indicating the transaction has not been mined::

   String transactionHash = sendTransaction(...);

   // you loop through the following expecting to eventually get a receipt once the transaction
   // is mined
   EthGetTransactionReceipt.TransactionReceipt transactionReceipt =
           web3j.ethGetTransactionReceipt(transactionHash).sendAsync().get();

   if (!transactionReceipt.isPresent()) {
       // try again, ad infinitum
   }

However, you never receive a transaction receipt. Unfortunately there may not be a an error
in your Ethereum client indicating any issues with the transaction::

   I1025 18:13:32.817691 eth/api.go:1185] Tx(0xeaac9aab7f9aeab189acd8714c5a60c7424f86820884b815c4448cfcd4d9fc79) to: 0x9c98e381edc5fe1ac514935f3cc3edaa764cf004

The easiest way to see if the submission is waiting to mined is to refer to Etherscan
and search for the address the transaction was sent using https://testnet.etherscan.io/address/0x...
If the submission has been successful it should be visible in Etherscan within seconds of you
performing the transaction submission. The wait is for the mining to take place.

.. image:: /images/pending_transaction.png

If there is no sign of it then the transaction has vanished into the ether (sorry). The likely
cause of this is likely to be to do with the transaction's nonce either not being set, or
being too low. Please refer to the section :ref:`nonce` for more information.


I want to see details of the JSON-RPC requests and responses
------------------------------------------------------------

Set the following system properties in your main class or project configuration::

   // For HTTP connections
   System.setProperty("org.apache.commons.logging.Log","org.apache.commons.logging.impl.SimpleLog");
   System.setProperty("org.apache.commons.logging.simplelog.showdatetime", "true");
   System.setProperty("org.apache.commons.logging.simplelog.log.org.apache.http.wire", "DEBUG");

   // For IPC connections
   System.setProperty("org.apache.commons.logging.simplelog.log.org.web3j.protocol.ipc", "DEBUG");


I want to obtain some Ether on Testnet, but don't want to have to mine it myself
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Head to the `Ethereum Ropsten Faucet <http://faucet.ropsten.be:3001/>`_ to request one free Ether.


How do I obtain the return value from a smart contract method invoked by a transaction?
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

You can't. It is not possible to return values from methods on smart contracts that are called as
part of a transaction. If you wish to read a value during a transaction, you must use
`Events <http://solidity.readthedocs.io/en/develop/contracts.html#events>`_. To query values
from smart contracts you must use a call, which is separate to a transaction. These methods should
be marked as
`constant <http://solidity.readthedocs.io/en/develop/contracts.html?highlight=constant#constant-functions>`_
functions. :ref:`smart-contract-wrappers` created by web3j handle these differences for you.

The following StackExchange
`post <http://ethereum.stackexchange.com/questions/765/what-is-the-difference-between-a-transaction-and-a-call>`_
is useful for background.


Is it possible to send arbitrary text with transactions?
--------------------------------------------------------

Yes it is. Text should be ASCII encoded and provided as a hexadecimal String in the data field
of the transaction. This is demonstrated below::

   RawTransaction.createTransaction(
           <nonce>, GAS_PRICE, GAS_LIMIT, "0x<address>", <amount>, "0x<hex encoded text>");

   byte[] signedMessage = TransactionEncoder.signMessage(rawTransaction, ALICE);
   String hexValue = Numeric.toHexString(signedMessage);

   EthSendTransaction ethSendTransaction =
           parity.ethSendRawTransaction(hexValue).sendAsync().get();
   String transactionHash = ethSendTransaction.getTransactionHash();
   ...

*Note*: Please ensure you increase the gas limit on the transaction to allow for the storage of
text.

The following StackExchange
`post <http://ethereum.stackexchange.com/questions/2466/how-do-i-send-an-arbitary-message-to-an-ethereum-address>`_
is useful for background.


Do you have a project donation address?
---------------------------------------

Absolutely, you can contribute Bitcoin or Ether to help fund the development of web3j.

+----------+--------------------------------------------+
| Ethereum | 0x2dfBf35bb7c3c0A466A6C48BEBf3eF7576d3C420 |
+----------+--------------------------------------------+
| Bitcoin  | 1DfUeRWUy4VjekPmmZUNqCjcJBMwsyp61G         |
+----------+--------------------------------------------+


Where can I get commercial support for web3j?
---------------------------------------------

Commercial support and training is available from `blk.io <https://blk.io>`_.

Commit message:

1. Updated Solidity function wrappers to use Java native types by default, as per (https://github.com/web3j/web3j/issues/170). 2. Updated function wrappers to use Tuple types when multiple values or structs are returned from Solidity functions (https://github.com/web3j/web3j/issues/90). 3. Added additional troubleshooting doc entry.

docs/source/trouble.rst, after:

Troubleshooting
===============

I'm submitting a transaction, but it's not being mined
------------------------------------------------------
After creating and sending a transaction, you receive a transaction hash, however calling
`eth_getTransactionReceipt <https://github.com/ethereum/wiki/wiki/JSON-RPC#eth_gettransactionreceipt>`_
always returns a blank value, indicating the transaction has not been mined::

   String transactionHash = sendTransaction(...);

   // you loop through the following expecting to eventually get a receipt once the transaction
   // is mined
   EthGetTransactionReceipt.TransactionReceipt transactionReceipt =
           web3j.ethGetTransactionReceipt(transactionHash).sendAsync().get();

   if (!transactionReceipt.isPresent()) {
       // try again, ad infinitum
   }

However, you never receive a transaction receipt. Unfortunately there may not be a an error
in your Ethereum client indicating any issues with the transaction::

   I1025 18:13:32.817691 eth/api.go:1185] Tx(0xeaac9aab7f9aeab189acd8714c5a60c7424f86820884b815c4448cfcd4d9fc79) to: 0x9c98e381edc5fe1ac514935f3cc3edaa764cf004

The easiest way to see if the submission is waiting to mined is to refer to Etherscan
and search for the address the transaction was sent using https://testnet.etherscan.io/address/0x...
If the submission has been successful it should be visible in Etherscan within seconds of you
performing the transaction submission. The wait is for the mining to take place.

.. image:: /images/pending_transaction.png

If there is no sign of it then the transaction has vanished into the ether (sorry). The likely
cause of this is likely to be to do with the transaction's nonce either not being set, or
being too low. Please refer to the section :ref:`nonce` for more information.


I want to see details of the JSON-RPC requests and responses
------------------------------------------------------------

Set the following system properties in your main class or project configuration::

   // For HTTP connections
   System.setProperty("org.apache.commons.logging.Log","org.apache.commons.logging.impl.SimpleLog");
   System.setProperty("org.apache.commons.logging.simplelog.showdatetime", "true");
   System.setProperty("org.apache.commons.logging.simplelog.log.org.apache.http.wire", "DEBUG");

   // For IPC connections
   System.setProperty("org.apache.commons.logging.simplelog.log.org.web3j.protocol.ipc", "DEBUG");


I want to obtain some Ether on Testnet, but don't want to have to mine it myself
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Head to the `Ethereum Ropsten Faucet <http://faucet.ropsten.be:3001/>`_ to request one free Ether.


How do I obtain the return value from a smart contract method invoked by a transaction?
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

You can't. It is not possible to return values from methods on smart contracts that are called as
part of a transaction. If you wish to read a value during a transaction, you must use
`Events <http://solidity.readthedocs.io/en/develop/contracts.html#events>`_. To query values
from smart contracts you must use a call, which is separate to a transaction. These methods should
be marked as
`constant <http://solidity.readthedocs.io/en/develop/contracts.html?highlight=constant#constant-functions>`_
functions. :ref:`smart-contract-wrappers` created by web3j handle these differences for you.

The following StackExchange
`post <http://ethereum.stackexchange.com/questions/765/what-is-the-difference-between-a-transaction-and-a-call>`_
is useful for background.


Is it possible to send arbitrary text with transactions?
--------------------------------------------------------

Yes it is. Text should be ASCII encoded and provided as a hexadecimal String in the data field
of the transaction. This is demonstrated below::

   RawTransaction.createTransaction(
           <nonce>, GAS_PRICE, GAS_LIMIT, "0x<address>", <amount>, "0x<hex encoded text>");

   byte[] signedMessage = TransactionEncoder.signMessage(rawTransaction, ALICE);
   String hexValue = Numeric.toHexString(signedMessage);

   EthSendTransaction ethSendTransaction =
           parity.ethSendRawTransaction(hexValue).sendAsync().get();
   String transactionHash = ethSendTransaction.getTransactionHash();
   ...

*Note*: Please ensure you increase the gas limit on the transaction to allow for the storage of
text.

The following StackExchange
`post <http://ethereum.stackexchange.com/questions/2466/how-do-i-send-an-arbitary-message-to-an-ethereum-address>`_
is useful for background.


I've generated my smart contract wrapper, but the binary for the smart contract is empty?
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

If you have defined an interface in Solidity, but one of your method implementations doesn't
match the original interface definitions, the produced binary will be blank.

In the following example:

   contract Web3jToken is ERC20Basic, Ownable {
       ...
       function transfer(address _from, address _to, uint256 _value) onlyOwner returns (bool) {
       ...
   }

We forgot to define the *from* parameter in one of the inherited contracts.

   contract ERC20Basic {
       ...
       function transfer(address to, uint256 value) returns (bool);
       ...
   }

The Solidity compiler will not complain about this, however, the produced binary file for the
Web3jToken will be blank.



Do you have a project donation address?
---------------------------------------

Absolutely, you can contribute Bitcoin or Ether to help fund the development of web3j.

+----------+--------------------------------------------+
| Ethereum | 0x2dfBf35bb7c3c0A466A6C48BEBf3eF7576d3C420 |
+----------+--------------------------------------------+
| Bitcoin  | 1DfUeRWUy4VjekPmmZUNqCjcJBMwsyp61G         |
+----------+--------------------------------------------+


Where can I get commercial support for web3j?
---------------------------------------------

Commercial support and training is available from `blk.io <https://blk.io>`_.
